react-js/README.md, before:

# REACT

- React is a JS library for building user interfaces (UI).

    **JS**
    - Runs in the browser.
    - We can manipulate the HTML structure (DOM) on the page.
    - Allow us to change what the users sees without fetching a new HTML page.

While with vanilla js we need to write/describe every single step (imperative aproach), with react we are able to write declarative code.

So, react is: 

- Client-side JS library.
- It's all about building modern reactive user interfaces for websites.
- Declarative, component focused approach.
- It could be use to control parts of HTML or to control de ENTIRE frontend (SPA - Single-page-application).

To started a JS project: 

- https://create-react-app.dev/
- https://vitejs.dev/


## Components and building UIs

## Working with events and Data

## Styling react apps and components

## React hooks

## Side effects, 'refs' and more react hooks

## React's Context API & Redux

## Forms, Http requests & 'custom hooks'

## Routing, deployment, NextJS

Commit message:

components and pr ops feature

react-js/README.md, after:

# REACT

- React is a JS library for building user interfaces (UI).

    **JS**
    - Runs in the browser.
    - We can manipulate the HTML structure (DOM) on the page.
    - Allow us to change what the users sees without fetching a new HTML page.

While with vanilla js we need to write/describe every single step (imperative aproach), with react we are able to write declarative code.

So, react is: 

- Client-side JS library.
- It's all about building modern reactive user interfaces for websites.
- Declarative, component focused approach.
- It could be use to control parts of HTML or to control de ENTIRE frontend (SPA - Single-page-application).

**To started a JS project:**

- https://create-react-app.dev/
- https://vitejs.dev/

With vite: 

npm create vite (first time)
npm init vite

On the console: 
npm install
npm run dev

## Components and building UIs

- Components are functions that return tipically, JSX code.

- This code is executed multiple times, this mean we get separated 'component instances'.


## Working with events and Data

## Styling react apps and components

## React hooks

## Side effects, 'refs' and more react hooks

## React's Context API & Redux

## Forms, Http requests & 'custom hooks'

## Routing, deployment, NextJS
